[Upon arriving at the floating city...]


Flurrie: My, my, my! Glitzville! I've heard that the Glitz Pit is just full of
         brawny brawls! I must admit, the prospect of some hurly-burly gets me a
         touch piqued!


Flurrie: Now, darling, let's find that Crystal Star, hmm?


[They go inside the Glitzville's main building, and then they find an area
 known as the Glitz Pit, where there is a big crowd who watches the battles
 that take place. Inside...]


Flurrie: Oh, dear me! What a positively glorious venue! Oh, mercy, Mario! Look
         there! Those two brutes are about to have at each other!


Rawk Hawk: *to the crowd* That's right! Unh! I think it's about time for you to
           FEEL THE RAAAAAWK!


[He stomps on the opponent]


Koopinator: OOOOOOOOOF!


Rawk Hawk: Stay down, pincushion! You don't want more of this! Why'd you even
           show up? Yeah, you hear me talking, Wimpy! Stay outta the ring, or
           feel the burn, baby! Tell you what: do about a million push-ups and
           then come see Uncle Rawk Hawk! I'll give you another world-class
           spanking and send you crying home to Momma again!


Grubba: Hooooo-WEEEEEEE! Champ! That was a grade-A whuppin'! Yer thoughts on
        the match!


[Grubba holds the microphone up to the Rawk Hawk]


Rawk Hawk: You call that a match? Ain't there a fighter out there who can
           challenge me? No! No one can! Hear me? Ain't a fighter out there
           that can even make me sweat! They're all a bunch of little
           crybabies, running around in stinky diapers! You got a bone to
           pick?!? Come fight me! Bring it! I'll take on anyone! You
           weaklings might as well stick to video-game fighting, OK? 'Cause
           I'll hurt you. YEAH! NUMBER ONE, BABY!!! RAWK HAWK IS THE CHAMP!
           Harharharharharharharharharharhar!


[He holds up the champion's belt, which has a Crystal Star on it]


Flurrie: Oh, my word! Mario! On that uncouth bird's belt! Is that a Crystal
         Star?


[The Rawk Hawk is shown]


Flurrie: Yes, I do believe it is! That wonderful sparkle is yet another
         Crystal Star! ...But such a tawdry place to find it... Why would it be
         here, of all places?


[They exit the Glitz Pit arena]


Flurrie: Oh, whatever shall we do? I don't fancy the idea of stealing that
         fellow's belt... What shall we do, Mario?


 - Steal that thing!
 - Battle our way to the top!


[When "Battle our way to the top!" is chosen...]


Flurrie: Oh, you darling man, I'm SO happy to hear you say that! I'd expect
         nothing less! You're ten times the man of anyone here! You'll be
         champion in no time!


[Mario nods]


Flurrie: Let's move on then, shall we? Our next step is to become official
         fighters, I imagine. Ooh, my heart is positively THUMPING! Let's find
         whoever is in charge, this minute!


[Mario talks to a security guard on the left side of the area]


Security Guard #1: What's that, bub? You wanna become a fighter? ...Hmmm. Well,
                   if you're serious, you'd better go meet with Mr. Grubba, the
                   promoter. Mr. Grubba's office is just down the hallway. You
                   can't miss it. Head on through.


[Mario passes through the door, and finds another security guard blocking the
 door to Grubba's office]


Security Guard #2: What's that? You want to be a fighter, bub? Oh, all right,
                   go on in. Mr. Grubba's just inside.


[They enter Grubba's office. Inside...]


Grubba: Who in tarnation are you, son? And who let you in?!? This is Grubba's
        office! Yep, that's me, Grubba! An' you, yer one rude dude, comin' in
        without knockin'!


[Mario walks up to Grubba and talks to him]


Grubba: What, now? An athlete, huh? You wanna be a fighter?


[Mario nods]


Grubba: Hoo-WEE! That do change a thing or two, son! I always got time for an
        up-an'-comer! Yep, this place is packed to the gills with young
        fighters, all primed and a-rarin' to go! I gotta say, son, yer a bit
        skinny fer my tastes, but I'm willin' to give you a shot. Now, play me
        straight, son: you wanna live the glamorous life of a champ, don'tcha?


 - Darn skippy!
 - Not particularly.


[The outcome is the same regardless of the choice]


Grubba: All right! All right, son! I hear where yer comin' from, son, lound an'
        clear!


[He walks over to Mario]


Grubba: When I was just a poor pup, I didn't give a Pokey's patoot for fancy,
        big-city ways. But I jumped into the world of martial arts and fought
        my way to fame and riches! An' know what I realized? Bein' rich an'
        famous is diggety-dang DYNAMITE!


Grubba: Now, I can't mix it up in the ring no more, but I earned enough to set
        me for life. You readin' me here, son? Dreams do come true, even if
        they ain't yours, exactly!


Grubba: Yep, that's the key, son! Dream big, and you'll GET big, that's the
        winner's way!


Grubba: And when you make it big, you'll look back at all those small-dreamers
        and LAUGH! You readin' me here, son?


[He turns around to Mario, and catches Mario's attention again]


Grubba: That's the spirit, chief! Here, let's have us a little walk 'n' talk.
        C'mon, now!


[Mario follows Grubba out of his office and proceeds down the hallway. They
 enter the champion's room]


Grubba: Now how you like THIS, pard? Just feast yer eyes, go on! This...is the
        champion's room. Isn't it a sight? Deee-luxe! You become champ, son,
        and you get the key to this room! That ain't all, of course! That's on
        TOP of the big money and screamin' fans! Yeah, no doubt about it, son!
        Apply yourself an' a life of wealth an' comfort awaits!


[They go to the major league locker room]


Grubba: Now, uh, here we have the major-league locker room. A lotta contenders
        here! Whatcha think, son? Huh? Not exactly glamorous, but it's clean
        and comfortable. Totally sanitary, too. Maybe I'm old-fashioned, but I
        CARE about my fighters, darn it!


[Back at Grubba's office...]


Grubba: Now... I'm sure you know this already, son, but there ain't but one
        world champion. Clawin' your way to the top an' takin' the belt to
        become champ ain't an easy thing... But that's the point, son! Wouldn't
        be worth it if there weren't no challenge! I can see you got the fire
        for it, too, pard! You got the eye of the tiger, there! Yer gonna be
        champ, I can just FEEL it! I ain't never been so sure about a fighter!


Grubba: Oh, hey, one other thing... You gotta sign a itty-bitty contract to be
        a fighter. It ain't no thing, just take a second or two of yer time.
        Just jot your name here, OK?


 - Sign me up!
 - I don't think so.


[The outcome is the same regardless of the option you choose]


"You signed the contract!"


Grubba: Best thing you ever done, son! Now, yer Mario? Ain't a bad handle...
        Still, I gotta say, pard, it lacks a little punch as a fighter's name,
        get me?


Grubba: Lemme see, here... Bam! Hoooooo-WEEEEEEEEEE! I got it!!! From now on,
        you're gonna be...the Great Gonzales! Hoo! Ain't that a beaut? Dang if
        that ain't a stroke of genius! A name that good comes 'round once a
        lifetime! Yep, everyone will soon bow before the Great Gonzales! Make
        me proud, son!


[Mario is confused]


Grubba: Well, now that we got the business side outta the way... Jolene? Could
        you come in a minute, darlin'?


[A girl walks in, which is Jolene]


Jolene: Yes, sir? You wished to see me?


Grubba: Sure did, hon. Jolene, this is the Great Gonzales, our newest risin'
        star. Be a peach and take him on down to the minor-league locker room,
        all righty?


Jolene: Right away, sir.


Jolene: Mr. Gonzales? If you would be so kind, please follow me.


[Mario follows Jolene down the hallway to the minor-league locker room]


Jolene: As you know, you are a contracted fighter now, so you must abide by
        some rules. First and foremost, what Mr. Grubba says, goes. Period. You
        must do what he says. Also, as per your contract, you cannot quit until
        Mr. Grubba releases you. There are many other small guidelines that I
        will explain as they become relevant.


[They walk into the minor-league locker room]


Jolene: Well, here we are. This is your locker room.


Jolene: You're starting in the minor league, of course, as you've just now
        started your career. If you don't like this dingy room, I suggest you
        work your way up through the ranks.


[Jolene walks over to a GBA-style screen on the wall]


Jolene: When you're ready to fight, you just log on to this computer terminal
        here. Mr. Grubba will then decide who you'll match up against. You will
        have no say in this. Why don't you try it once? Walk up to the screen
        and log on with A. Then pick "Reserve a Match".


[Mario reserves a match]


Grubba: Well, howdy, Gonzales! Ready to get yer fists dirty, huh? There you go,
        son! I got a treat fer you: yer first battle's gonna be against the
        Goomba Bros.! Don't you worry 'bout them... They'll be a piece of cake!
        Just mop 'em up, OK, son? Hey, we wanna get everyone fired up, though,
        so appeal to the crowd at least once! You got any questions about
        detailed rules, just ask the lovely Ms. Jolene, OK, son? Well, good
        luck, pard!


[The screen turns off]


Jolene: OK, your battle is reserved. At this point, you just wait until
        Security comes for you. Fighting is pretty basic. The team that drops
        the opponent's HP to 0 first, wins. If you beat an opponent who ranks
        above you, your ranking will go up. Then again, if you lose to a
        lower-ranking opponent, your ranking will go down. Simply winning is
        not enough. When Mr. Grubba sets fight conditions, follow them. In this
        case, the condition is to appeal to the crowd at least once. Fairly
        easy. If you satisfy the condition and win, you can battle a
        higher-ranked opponent next. If you can get your rank up to 11th,
        you'll get a shot at the major league. That's about all you need to
        know for now. Did you get all that?


 - Yup.
 - Not exactly...


[If "Not exactly..." is chosen, she repeats herself. If "Yup." is chosen...]


Jolene: OK, good. For now, just wait until Securuity comes to get you, Mr.
        Gonzales.


[Mario and his partner wait, then the security comes]


Security Guard: Gonzales! Match time! Follow me, bub.


Jolene: OK, Security's here to escort you to the ring. Try not to get
        completely destroyed out there.


[The security guard leads Mario to the Glitz Pit arena]


Grubba: Squarin' off next, folks...are the Hoppin' Hardheads... the GOOMBA
        BROS.! Aaaaaand... A newcomer, with a hankerin' for hammerin', the
        Greeeeeeat GONZALES! The Goomba Bros. have been waitin' an' gettin' all
        het up for the fight. Let's check in!


[He walks over to the Goomba Bros.]


Grubba: How do, Goomba Bros.! How're y'all feelin' today? You ready fer this
        fight?


Goomba: Ha! Are you kidding, man? We're ALWAYS ready to bonk a fool or two! Who
        is this Gonzales rookie! A cocky idiot, that's who! Waiting just makes
        us mad! We're gonna teach this tardy punk how to respect fighters with
        seniority! I think maybe you oughta call an ambulance for him now, just
        to save time later!


[Mario enters and steps onto the ring]


Grubba: Hot-diggety-DANG, fight fans! There's the Great Gonzales now, stridin'
        on up! I tell you, this rookie's got some guts, strollin' up late like
        he owns the place! Hoo!


Grubba: OK, now, Gonzales, listen up. Lemme just explain the rules of the match
        real quick...


Goomba: Have a bonk, punk!


[They interrupt Grubba by immediately starting a battle]


Flurrie: What sort of base cowards attack before the match officially begins?
         Honestly! Come on, Mario, darling! We shan't lose to lowlifes! Let's
         teach them a lesson!


Goomba: Aw, quit crying, will ya? That was just a little welcome gift for the
        rookie! Where's our thank-you?!?


[After Mario wins the battle...]


Goomba: Uuuuuuuuuuurgh...


Grubba: The Great Gonzales wins! Tell me, son, what was this first taste of
        victory like?


 - That battle was savage!
 - Eh. It was OK, I guess.
 - That fight? What a joke.


[It doesn't make a difference what option you choose]


Grubba: I'll tell you what I just saw, folks: a whuppin'! This kid's got
        skills! We got ourselves a new hero! Let's hear it for him, folks!
        Yeah! The Great Gonzales!


[The fans cheer for Mario, then he's taken back to the minor-league room]


Jolene: Here's your prize money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's ranking rose to 19!"


Jolene: The next fight will not be set up until you select "Reserve a Match" on
        the terminal. You can also check your current ranking on the terminal's
        screen. Feel free to do whatever you like until your next fight.


Jolene: You have a nice day, Mr. Gonzales.


[Jolene leaves. After she leaves...]


Voice: Yo, Rook! How was your first fight, dog?


[A Koopa Troopa walks up to Mario]


King K: I'm King K, man. Just a bush-league scrub like you. Good meetin' you,
        man. You look like a stand-up dude. I think I can hang with you.


King K: Hey, so, why don't you meet the gang, huh? This guy here's Master
        Crash.


Master Crash: Nice to meet you BOMB! Well. Now that we've gotten to know each
              other, I will give you advice BOMB! As Ms. Jolene was saying,
              you'd better BOMB obey Mr. Grubba's conditions. If you clear the
              conditions and win, you get to fight higher-ranked foes BOMB! If
              you can't clear them, you BOMB end up battling a lower-ranked
              fighter BOMB! You can't climb the BOMB ranks fighting the bottom
              of the barrel BOMB-BOMB!


King K: Yeah. My man's got, you know, some speech issues, but he's got good
        advice sometimes.


Master Crash: Not just sometimes BOMB! Advice is ALWAYS useful BOMB-BOMB!


King K: Riiiight, man, whatever. Anyway, this lean machine over here is Bandy
        Andy.


Bandy Andy: Heh. Nice to meet you. I'm not in here too often, but if you see me
            around, say hi. ...Oh yeah. If you sleep in the bed over there,
            your HP and FP will fully recover. It's not like the cushy bed in
            the champ's room, though: it doesn't refill Star Power.


King K: OK, cool, and this last guy with the sweet purple kicks is known as
        Cleftor.


Cleftor: Grack! Cleftor no like make friend with mustache.


King K: Easy there, Cleft-dog! Dude ain't the friendliest guy, but you get used
        to him.


King K: Anyway, that's the core minor-league crew, man! You need something, ask
        us. Oh, yeah... I almost forgot. You and me gotta eventually square
        off, so good luck, man.


[Mario reserves his next match, against the KP Koopas]


King K: Hey, dog... Looks like your next match is against me. Good luck, man...
        to both of us.


[When the opponents get in the ring...]


Grubba: Fer out next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Shell Machines of Doom... Yep, a fight to the
        finish with The KP Koopas!


Flurrie: Here we go, darling! Time to shine!


King K: Meet my peeps, Gonzales! I told you we were gonna square off, and now
        it's ON!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Flurrie: Why, that was no fuss whatsoever!


[Back at the minor league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's ranking rose to 18!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves]


King K: Hey, way to hand out a beatdown there, man. You beat me, straight up.
        Could swing the other way next time, though, you know what I'm sayin'?


[Mario reserves the next match, which is against the Pokey Triplets. Mario gets
 escorted to the ring for his next match]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Spiked Terror Triplets... Yep, a fight to the
        finish with The Pokey Triplets!


Flurrie: Mario, darling... Are you quite ready?


Pokey: Go ahead... Touch usssssss... It won't hurrrrrrrrrrrrt....too
       muchhhhh...


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Flurrie: Anytime you care for another lesson, we'll be here!


[Back at the minor league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's ranking rose to 17!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves]


King K: Hey, what's crackin', G-man?


King K: You just finish beatin' down some poor fools or what? You lookin' good,
        man. The old King K wouldn't mind a little bit of your luck, man. Yeah,
        that'd be nice.


Voice: Get in there, you!


[Jolene walks in with Bandy Andy]


Jolene: How many times do I have to tell you: that room is absolutely
        OFF-LIMITS! If you want to remain on our fighter roster, you must
        follow the rules. And don't think I haven't noticed you following me.
        Stop that, too. It's creepy. If you don't obey the rules, we'll ban you
        from the Glitz Pit. Understood?


[Jolene leaves]


King K: Again, dude? Man, you just a MAGNET for trouble!


Bandy Andy: Heh heh heh heh heh... Sorry, King K. Didn't mean to bring Queen
            Nag in here.


King K: Aw, don't sweat it, B-money. Jolene can take that 'tude and shove it up
        her nose. Why you always chasin' that girl, anyway, man? You got a
        little thing for her?


Bandy Andy: Shut up, K! ...Now... If you folks will pardon me, I must be off.


[Bandy Andy leaves. Mario reserves another match, which is against the Dead
 Bones. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Bone-Banging Rockers... Yep, a fight to the finish
        with The Dead Bones!


Flurrie: Here we go, darling! Time to shine!


Dead Bone: We're gonna take the skin off YOUR bones!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Flurrie: Why, that was no fuss whatsoever!


[Back at the minor league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's ranking rose to 16!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves]


King K: Man, I heard you just KNOCKED some blocks off! Not bad, Double-G-dog.
        You're the real deal, man. The realest I ever seen. Keep bustin' heads!
        An' if anyone gives you lip, you just tell 'em King K said to back it
        up! Biz-OWWWW!


Voice: AIGH! HURTS!


[Voices can be heard from outside at the hallway, and someone is being treated]


King K: Whoa. Sounds like some poor sucker just earned himself a trip to the
        hospital.


King K: Hey, man, this is a brutal sport, sometimes, you know? This stuff
        happens.


[Mario reserves his next match, against the Spike Storm. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Midnight Spike-Bombers... Yep, a fight to the
        finish with Spike Storm!


Flurrie: Here we go, darling! Time to shine!


Spiny: We're gonna spike-bomb you into submission, punks!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Flurrie: Anytime you care for another lesson, we'll be here!


[Back at the minor league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's ranking rose to 15!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves, and King K walks up to Mario]


King K: Hey, man, check this: I heard the Hot Dog Stand outside's gettin' a new
        menu item. Yeah, sounds like it's some crazy Hot Dog made with an egg
        from a southern island. Some fool was even sayin' the Hot Dog'll help
        you win fights! You oughta snack out on one!


[Mario and the others proceed outside, where they hear someone]


Voice: No! Bad! So very bad! Behave yourself, egg!


[Mario notices the Hot Dog Stand owner chasing a bouncing egg]


Hot Dog Stand Owner: No! Bad! Come back! Help! My imported egg escaped!
                     Somebody, catch it!


[Mario catches it, then it jumps onto the top of the Hot Dog Stand]


Hot Dog Stand Owner: MOST AWFULLY BAD! Come down from there, bad egg! How am I
                     supposed to get it now? FLY there?!? *to Mario* You! Don't
                     just stand there with your mustache! Find a way to get up
                     there!


[The egg falls asleep, and Mario looks for a way to get up to the egg. He finds
 an airplane panel which he uses to fly up to it. Mario talks to the egg]


Flurrie: Hmmm, now? You wish for us to help you, you darling little egg? Mario,
         hon, what do you think we ought to do?


 - Help the little guy!
 - Let there be Hot Dogs!


[If "Let there be Hot Dogs!" is chosen...]


Flurrie: Mario, you wash your mouth out right this instant! How DARE you
         frighten this egg! Well, I never... Little eggy, you just ignore the
         scary man, OK? We will let you go. You, sir! Mr. Proprietor! Would you
         allow us to free this poor soul?


[If "Help the little guy!" is chosen...]


Flurrie: A positively endearing choice, Mario, not that I expected any less. We
         shall free him! You, sir! Mr. Proprietor! Would you allow us to free
         this poor soul?


[The below lines are said regardless of the choice you made]


Hot Dog Stand Owner: Aww... Fine. Most people don't like eating stuff that
                     jumps all over the place, anyway,


Flurrie: Well, that's just loverly! You're free to do whatever you like, dear
         egg! Farewell!


[The egg jumps]


Flurrie: Hmmm? What is it now, dear? You wish to accompany us, you adorable
         thing?


Flurrie: I daresay this little dumpling wants to stay with us, Mario. What
         shall we do?


 - OK, it can follow us.
 - No. Jumping eggs bug me.


[The outcome is the same regardless of the option you choose]


Flurrie: You're all clear, little one! But do try not to get underfoot, all
         right?


[The egg follows them around Glitzville. Mario goes back to the minor league
 room and reserves a match, against the Hand-It-Overs. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Grim Death Burglars... Yep, a fight to the finish
        with The Hand-It-Overs!

Flurrie: Here we go, darling! Time to shine!


Bandit: Heh heh heh heh heh! We're awful quick, awful agile...and just plain
        awful!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Flurrie: Anytime you care for another lesson, we'll be here!


[Back at the minor league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's ranking rose to 14!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves, and King K walks up to Mario]


King K: Hey, you hear the latest, G-dog? My boys said they saw a STUNNIN' babe
        havin' a juice at the Fresh Juice Shop. King K could use a little
        shortie in his life, dig? Check her out for me, man!


[Mario reserves another match, which is against the Mind-Bogglers. At the
 ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Gray Entanglers... Yep, a fight to the finish with
        The Mind-Bogglers!


Flurrie: Here we go, darling! Time to shine!


Piranha Plant: Prepare to be ensnared, mystified, and devoured!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Flurrie: Why, that was no fuss whatsoever!


[Back at the minor league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's ranking rose to 13!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves, and King K walks up to Mario]


King K: Listen, man... Keep it under your hat, but I'm thinkin' 'bout retirin'
        soon. If I stay any longer...well, my future might get shorter, dig?
        After next match, I'm gone. It ain't cool, man, that's for sure, but
        you know what? That's life, Double-G-dog. Listen... You be cool, man.
        Promise me you won't forget you once knew the King K!


[Mario reserves another match, against the Punk Rocks. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Green Torture Squad... Yep, a fight to the finish
        with The Punk Rocks!


Flurrie: Mario, darling... Are you quite ready?


Bald Cleft: This no take long. This end in pain for mustache.


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Flurrie: Anytime you care for another lesson, we'll be here!


[Back at the minor league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's ranking rose to 12!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves and Mario reserves another match, against the Bob-omb Squad. At
 the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Big Bomb Boomers... Yep, a fight to the finish with
        The Bob-omb Squad!


Flurrie: Mario, darling... Are you quite ready?


Master Crash: Here we go, Gonzales BOMB! I have advice! Just give up now
              BOMB-BOMB!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Flurrie: Anytime you care for another lesson, we'll be here!


[Back at the minor league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's ranking rose to 11!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


Master Crash: *to Cleftor* It is quite lonely without King K around BOMB...


Cleftor: No lonely... Him too weak... Now him not here. Sound normal to
         Cleftor.


Master Crash: You are in BOMB denial, Cleftor. I saw you weeping in that locker
              BOMB-BOMB!


[Jolene walks in with a new fighter]


Jolene: Right this way, Sir Swoop. This is your dressing room.


Jolene: You're starting in the minor league, of course, as you've just now
        started your career. If you don't like this dingy room, I suggest you
        make your way up through the ranks.


Jolene: When you're ready to fight, you just log on to this computer terminal
        here. Mr. Grubba will then decide who you'll match up against. You will
        have no say in this. Why don't you try it once? Walk up to the screen
        and log on with A. Then pick "Reserve a Match".


[Sir Swoop walks up to the terminal]


Jolene: Use the terminal now. Don't you understand basic instructions, Sir
        Swoop?


[He logs on]


Grubba: Well, howdy, Sir Swoop! Ready to get yer wings dirty, huh? There you
        go, son! I got a treat fer you: yer first battle's gonna be against the
        Goomba Bros.! Don't you worry 'bout them... They'll be a piece of cake!
        Just mop 'em up, OK, son? Hey, we wanna get the crowd fired up, so do a
        move where you do a triple flip and meow! You got any questions about
        detailed rules, just ask the lovely Ms. Jolene, OK, son? Well, good
        luck, pard!


[The terminal turns off]


Jolene: OK, your battle is reserved. At this point, you just wait until
        Security comes for you. Fighting is pretty basic. The team that drops
        the opponent's HP to 0 first, wins. If you beat an opponent who ranks
        above you, your ranking will go up. Then again, if you lose to a
        lower-ranking opponent, your ranking will go down. Simply winning is
        not enough. When Mr. Grubba sets fight conditions, follow them. In this
        case, the condition is to do a triple flip and then meow. Fairly easy.
        If you satisfy the condition and win, you can battle a higher-ranked
        opponent next. If you can get your rank up to 11th, you'll get a shot
        at the major league. That's about all you need to know for now. Did you
        understand all that?


[Sir Swoop jumps]


Jolene: OK, good. For now, just wait until Security comes to get you, Sir
        Swoop.


Sir Swoop: Ummm... Hi guys. Yeah... My name's Swoop. SIR Swoop, I mean. Nice to
           meet you.


[Security comes]


Security Guard: You. Yes, you. Sir Swoop. Time for your battle, bub. Follow me.


Jolene: OK, Security's here to escort you to the ring. Try not to get
        completely destroyed out there.


[The security guard and Sir Swoop leaves, along with Jolene. Mario reserves
 another match]


Grubba: Well, dog my cats! If it ain't the Great Gonzales! Fixin' for a fight,
        huh? Hyuk hyuk hyuk hyuk hyuk! Hoo-wee! Yer gonna love this! Yer next
        opponent is... Ranked 10 in the Glitz Pit... The Armored Harriers!
        That's right! Yer darn tootin'! Yer finally gonna make a go at the
        major league, son! We're expectin' great things from you, so don't you
        go a-lettin' us down, now!


[From that point, Grubba makes random guidelines for the fight. At the ring...]


Grubba: And now...today's main event! The major league awaits the 11th-ranked
        Great Gonzales... But only if he can beat the 10th-ranked
        powerhouses... The Iron Adonis Twins!


Grubba: First, let's get the Merciless Executioner in here, folks! THE GRRRREAT
        GONZALES!


[Mario walks in and steps onto the ring]


Grubba: Hoooooooooo-WEEEEEEEEEE! The Great Gonzales! How're you feelin'?


 - OK, I guess.
 - Just perfect, thanks.
 - BUUUUUUUUUUURP!


[The outcome is the same regardless of the option you choose]


Grubba: Whoa, nelly! You heard the fella, folks! He's obviously itchin' to mix
        it up some!


[Grubba notices the Armored Harries step ono the ring]


Grubba: Hyuk hyuk! Your challenger is real confident, boys! Yep, he's talkin'
        trash... "Iron Adonis Twins?" he said. "More like Paper Dog-Face Bros.!
        ...And they stink!" And then he said: "I bet they just play video games
        an' cry when they lose!" Um, yeah, and then he said... "Outie belly
        buttons run in their family! Stinkwads!" ...And so on. Yep.


Iron Cleft #1: WHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAT!? How does he know Mom has an
               outie? That jerk! We're gonna blend you up into a smoothie,
               pal! And then we're gonna drink ya! Oh, and one more thing...
               Only smelly stinkwads call other people stinkwads! Understand,
               stinkwad?


Iron Cleft #2: Simmer down there, Bro. You! Stinkwad! You're gonna regret
               opening your yap, pal! See these bods? Solid iron. See these
               spikes? Yeah, they penetrate any substance. So, basically, what
               I'm telling you is that whatever you try will be completely
               useless. Think that over in the very short time you have left
               with a functional brain.


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[In the battle...]


Flurrie: Good gracious, we'll make the major league if we previal! I like our
         chances!


Iron Cleft #1: Bluh huh huh huh huh... Give up now!


Iron Cleft #2: Well, stinkwads, you're about to learn our skills the hard way.


[Mario loses]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! The Armored Harriers!!


Iron Cleft #1: Bluh huh huh huh huh... How'd you like that? We tried to tell
               you, but nooooooo...


Iron Cleft #2: If you want another piece of pummel pie, have a bath and come on
               back! Punk!


[Back at the minor league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received 1 coin! Mario's ranking remains at 11."


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


Flurrie: Oh, mercy me! Mario... That adorable little egg seems to have
         disappeared. Where could the little fellow have gotten himself to?


[She looks around for the egg]


Voice: Yo!


[They notice a Yoshi, which hatched from the egg]


Yoshi: Gonzales! Check me out! Thanks to you, I hatched safe and sound! Thanks,
       man!


[Mario is surprised]


Flurrie: Why, you little rapscallion! You hatched from that egg? Well, aren't
         you precious!


Yoshi: Yeah, but who cares? You guys wanna be champs, right? You want a Crystal
       Star? I heard all about it while I was in the egg! Yeah! Anyway, I gotta
       repay you for saving me from old Hoggle out there, so I'll fight for
       you! I can hold my own! I'll swallow any opponent whole, honest! Just
       leave it to me!


[Mario responds]


Yoshi: Huh? My name? Lessee... I just came outta that egg, so I guess I don't
       have a name yet. You seem fired up about it, so why don't you gimme one?
       Make it cool, OK?


[This guide will simply refer to him as "Yoshi". After a name is given...]


Yoshi: Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm... Yoshi, huh? Not too bad, dude. Not too bad
       at all. Yeah... I like it. OK, Gonzales... Let's get out there and do
       some damage!


"The Yoshi is now your friend! He'll answer to "Yoshi"!"


"Yoshi's Abilities: A Primer"


"Press X to get on and off the Yoshi!"


[Mario gets on and off, then on again]


"While riding the Yoshi, you'll move much faster!"


[Yoshi runs]


"Also, while on the Yoshi, if you press A, you'll float briefly in the air!"


[Yoshi floats, then Mario gets off]


"In battle, you can repeatedly bounce on enemies using his Ground Pound move
 or... You can use Gulp to inhale enemies whole and spit them out for massive
 damage!"


[After the introduction, Mario reserves a match against the Armored Harriers
 again. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Iron Adonis Twins... Yep, a fight to the finish
        with The Armored Harriers!


Yoshi: Lemme at 'em! Yeah! Bring it! You ready for a beating?


Iron Cleft #1: These ultrahard bods just can't lose!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[The battle starts]


Yoshi: Gonzales! Lemme at 'em! We're gonna take these punks this time!


Iron Cleft #1: Bluh huh huh huh huh... Stinkwad's challenging us again. He
               never learns!


Iron Cleft #2: Looks like he brought some new, shrimpy partner...as if that's
               gonna help him!


[Yoshi uses Gulp. He spits out the Iron Cleft to hit both of them, causing
 damage]


Iron Cleft #1: YEEEEEEEEEEEEOOOOOOOOOOOWCH! You spiked me right in the... THAT
               REALLY HURT! Our iron bodies and pointy nastiness are being used
               against us! No fair!


Iron Cleft #2: Oh, dang, Bro! Has he discovered our weak poitns?


[After the battle...]


Iron Cleft #1: Ooooooooooooorg...


Iron Cleft #2: Do we have to go back to the minor league now, Bro? I think I'm
               gonna be sick.


Grubba: Coooooooooongratulations!! Great Gonzales! With this win, you made the
        major league! Now, THAT, folks, was what I called a wiiiiiild an' wooly
        fight! A diggety-dang DOOZY! Keep it up, kid! You're goin' places, I
        can tell! Hoo-wee! C'mon, now, folks, give it up! We got a new
        major-leaguer! LET'S HEAR IT FOR HIM!!!


[The crowd cheers for Mario. Back at the minor league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's ranking rose to 10!"


Jolene: And Mr. Gonzales... Mr. Grubba wishes to see you in his office. Follow
        me.


[Mario follows Jolene to Grubba's office]


Jolene: Mr. Grubba... I've brought Mr. Gonzales, as you requested!


Grubba: Muh-Muh-Ms. Jolene! You mind yer manners, now! We KNOCK 'round here,
        missy!


Jolene: I apologize, Mr. Grubba.


Grubba: Don't you worry yer pretty li'l head about it none. Now, what'd I want
        again? Somethin' 'bout Gonzales... Oh, yeah!


[He walks over to Mario]


Grubba: Gonzales, you ol' so-an'-so! Lemme congratulate you, son! Major league
        already, huh? I had a feelin' you were goin' places, and DANG, I love
        it when I'm right! You just keep on puttin' tuckuses in them seats! I'm
        countin' on you, son. I got a special li'l somethin'-somethin' for you.
        Go on! Take it!


"You got 30 coins!"


Grubba: So, yeah, somethin' else that's been on my mind... Yer costume ain't
        cool. No big deal, son, but hey. Someday, if you become champ, I'll get
        you a new one. Somethin' hot pink, maybe with some frills or somethin'.
        You'll look a sight, son! Anyway, that's somethin' fer another day,
        pard. Take a powder, OK?


Jolene: Mr. Gonzales, please follow me, if you would.


[Mario follows Jolene down the hallway to the major league locker room]


Jolene: This is the major-league locker room. You will use this room from this
        moment on. The match system is the same as the minor league...but the
        bouts are harder. Try not to get completely destroyed out there, OK,
        Mr. Gonzales? Well, if you'll excuse me... I must be going now.


[Jolene leaves, and everyone in the room is silent]


Yoshi: What's the deal? Would it kill these guys to show a little friendliness?
       Sheesh!


[The Rawk Hawk enters]


Rawk Hawk: Studly guy, coming through! Listen up, losers! I've been hearing
           about some rising star tearing up the league...


[He sees Mario]


Rawk Hawk: It's you, isn't it! Yeah! You fit the bill, skinnt! A mustache named
           Gonzales! Man, I came all the way over here for YOU?!? Harharhar!
           What a waste of time!


[Mario notices a Crystal Star on his belt, then he talks to Yoshi]


Yoshi: What's your deal, Gonzales? Huh? Oh! The champ's belt...


[He walks over to the Rawk Hawk]


Rawk Hawk: What in the... Hey! You! Get too close to the Hawk and you might get
           RAWKED!


Yoshi: *to Mario* I'm not sure, but it defenitely looks weird. I think you're
       right, Gonzales. FAKE!


[Mario nods]


Rawk Hawk: Hey, you think you can just smack-talk the Rawk Hawk? I DON'T THINK
           SO!


Rawk Hawk: You got some guts, calling my belt a fake, you shrimpy, no-belt-
           having wimps! Didn't your momma teach you any manners?!?


Yoshi: Whoa, sorry, yellow dude! I didn't mean to rip on your big, bad belt!


Rawk Hawk: Stop making fun of me, punk! You're alive ONLY 'cause we ain't in
           the ring right now! If I see you under those lights, I'll tear you
           apart! Remember the RAWWWWWWK!


[The Rawk Hawk leaves]


Yoshi: Wow, I really pushed that dude's buttons, huh?


Yoshi: Well, forget him! We got a problem! Your map pointed to Glitzville,
       right? If that dude's belt has a FAKE Crystal Star on it... Then where
       the heck is the real one at?


[Mario gets an e-mail]


Yoshi: Gonzales! Was that your Mailbox SP going off? Who'd you get e-mail from?


[Mario opens his Mailbox SP]


"iF yOu WaNt ThE cRyStAl StAr, HeEd My InStRuCtIoNs."
                            FrOm X


Yoshi: Who the heck is this X dude? He talks like he's the man to see about
       that Crystal Star. Why would he wanna help us out, though? This whole
       deal seems kinda wack...


[Mario reserves his first match of the major league, against the Tiny Spinies.
 Security arrives]


Security Guard: Mr. Gonzales, it's time for your next match. Come with me.


[He follows the security guard to the ring. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Thorny Demons... Yep, a fight to the finish with
        The Tiny Spinies!


Yoshi: Lemme at 'em! Yeah! Bring it! You ready for a beating?


Spiny: Wheeee! It's gonna be fun poking at you!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Yoshi: Ah ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! How'd that floor taste?


[Back at the major league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's rank rose to 9!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves and Mario reserves the next match, against the Poker Faces. At
 the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Ultimate Weapons... Yep, a fight to the finish with
        The Poker Faces!


Yoshi: You think you can take me and Gonzales? HA!


Poker: Hoo hoo hoo hoo hoo hoo! You're gonna be coleslaw, kid! And that ain't
       good!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Yoshi: Ah ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! How'd that floor taste?


[Back at the major league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's rank rose to 8!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves, and Mario gets more mail]


Yoshi: Gonzales! You hear that? You just got another e-mail! See what it is,
       man!


[Mario opens his Mailbox SP]


"gO tO tHe WaTeRiNg HoLe OuTsIdE ThE gLiTz PiT."
                               FrOm X


Yoshi: It's from our mystery X dude? Go to some "watering hole", huh? OK,
       whatever! I'd give anything to know who this dude is.


[Mario and Yoshi go to the Juice Bar outside of the Glitz Pit, then they speak
 with the bartender]


Bartender: Oh, you're Mr. Gonzales! Yeah, that's the mustache I've been waiting
           for!


Bartender: Actually, you're pretty late... Somebody left a package and a note
           by the door a bit ago. The letter said: "Look for a thick-'stached
           man named Gonzales and give him this." The "this" the letter was
           talking about is...this.


[He gives Mario a Super Hammer]


Toadette: Hey, it's me again! Toadette! It's so nice to see you again, Mario!
          Congratulations on getting that Super Hammer! It's WAY more powerful!
          Plus, you can also use a wicked-cool new technique! Wanna learn about
          it? Sure you do! Let's practice! It's a little hard, but I'm sure
          you'll get it! Hold down B and rotate the Control Stick until your
          body twists up. Then release B to perform your Super-Hammer
          technique! The key is to rotate a lot before releasing B.


"Hold down B and rotate the Control Stick, then release B!"


[Mario does the Super Hammer technique]


Toadette: Oooh, excellent, Mario! You're so awesome! You want to try it again?


 - One more time...
 - No, I got it!


[If "One more time..." is chosen, the tutorial repeats itself. If "No, I got
 it!" is chosen...]


Toadette: OK! Great! You've mastered the Super Hammer!


[A huge yellow block falls down]


Toadette: With the Super-Hammer move, you can break even big blocks like this!


[The block disappears]


Toadette: Oh, gee, I almost forgot! You can use the Super Hammer in battle,
          too! Try it! See you later, Mario! Good luck with your quest!


[Toadette walks off. Back at the Juice Bar...]


Bartender: So far's I could tell, that hammer's a new model, the HAMMAWHACK
           2005... Real nice hammer all around. Solid craftsmanship, good grip,
           high bonkability. The commercials for this thing say that the hammer
           chooses its user... They aren't cheap, either, so whoever gave this
           to you must be a big fan. But... Why leave it in this juice shop?
           Doesn't that strike you as a bit odd? I mean, it's not like it's
           that hard to hand a gift to a pro fighter...


[Mario gets an e-mail]


Yoshi: Gonzales! E-mail time!


[Mario opens his Mailbox SP]


"SmAsH tHe BlOcKaDe In ThE minOr-LeAgUe LoCkEr RoOm."
                               FrOm X


Yoshi: "The blockade in the minor-league locker room", huh? Wonder what's
       behind it...


[Mario goes back to the Glitz Pit, and speaks to the security guard that blocks
 the door to the minor league room]


Security Guard: Ah. Gonzales, isn't it? I got the word that you wanted to move
                back down to the minor league again. Can't say I understand
                why. Anyway, go in.


[Inside the minor league room, Mario breaks a big yellow block using his new
 Super Hammer technique. Inside the room behind the wall, Mario uses Yoshi's
 help to reach a Dubious Paper. After he gets it, he reads it]


Yoshi: Whoa, Gonzales! That's some kinda scientific paper on the Crystal Stars!
       Who'd be investigating those besides us? They even took pictures!


Yoshi: Who'd leave something like this lying around? This is just REEKS of
       funny business!


[Upon leaving the room, Mario sees Jolene]


Jolene: You again... Mr. Gonzales, what are you doing in here?


Jolene: This is the minor-league locker room. Major-league athletes are
        forbidden. Even if they weren't, it's hardly appropriate to bash down
        our walls, hmmmmm?


[She walks up to Mario]


Jolene: I'll just be confiscating THIS, thank you very much.


[She takes the Dubious Paper and exits the room]


Yoshi: Dang, what's with her?!? We busted our humps getting that information!


Yoshi: Some people just gotta rain on parades! Well, at least we know the
       Crystal Star's here!


[Mario goes back to the major league room, then reserves a match. He must face
 off against the Shellshockers. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Turtles of Hurtle... Yep, a fight to the finish
        with The Shellshockers!


Yoshi: You think you can take me and Gonzales? HA!


Koopa Troopa: So-called Great Gonzales! Don't think I'm gonna take it easy on
              you, baby!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Yoshi: That all you got?


[Suddenly, Mario sees someone in the distance]


Voice: GONZAAAAAAAAAAAAAALES!


[The Armored Harries enter the ring]


Grubba: Whoa, nelly! I don't believe my eyes, folks! The Iron Adonis Twins are
        in a rage!


Iron Cleft #1: You made us look like suckers the other day, and now you're
               gonna pay for it! Awww... A little tired from your match, Great
               Stinkwad? Too bad! Prepare for pain!


[After the battle...]


Iron Cleft #1: Bluuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuurgh... We lost, after all that... We reek.


Grubba: Hoooooooooo-WEEEEEEEEEE! That's our Great Gonzales, friends and
        neighbors! Kid don't even blink when the Iron Adonis Twins barge in and
        attack! Woo! Tough! He's too dang tough! Yeah, this kid is only bound
        for bigger things, folks! Until next time, everyone... See ya!


[Back at the major league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's rank rose to 7!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Mario gets another e-mail]


Yoshi: Gonzales! Another e-mail?!? What now?


[Mario opens the Mailbox SP]


"Keep sticking your nose in where it doesn't belong and you are D-E-A-D
 M-E-A-T."


Yoshi: Man, THAT dude sounds peeved! I'm thinking that isn't our X buddy. Who
       do you think would send something like that?


[Mario reserves a match against the Fuzz. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Bottomless Vacuums... Yep, a fight to the finish
        with The Fuzz!


Yoshi: You think you can take me and Gonzales? HA!


Fuzzy: Meeeeork! Meeeeeeork! We'll suck up your SOULS! MEEEEEORK!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Yoshi: Ah ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! How'd that floor taste?


[Back at the major league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's rank rose to 6!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Mario sees a piece of cake]


Koopinator: Hey. You. Gonzales. Jolene brought you a piece of cake. From a fan,
            I guess.


[Mario examines the cake]


Yoshi: Man, that looks AWESOME! I'm drooling!


[They choose to eat the cake]


Yoshi: Yeah! Let's chow down!


"You fully recovered!"


[Mario reserves another match, against the Magikoopa Masters. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Underworld Servants... Yep, a fight to the finish
        with The Magikoopa Masters!


Yoshi: Lemme at 'em! Yeah! Bring it! You ready for a beating?


Magikoopa: You, fool, would do well to fear our dark magic...


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Yoshi: That all you got?


[Mario notices someone]


Voice: MAAAAAAAAARIOOOOOOO!!!


[Bowser is shown, and he jumps onto the ring]


Grubba: Whoa! Another fighter's stormin' in, screamin' his fool head off about
        somethin'! Gonzales has lots of foes, folks! Some who don't even know
        his name! Will he live?


Bowser: Word on the street was that some mustached doofus was in Glitzville...
        and lookee here! Talk about perfect timing! And now all these folks get
        to watch me murdalize you!


[They battle]


Bowser: Gwaaaaaa ha ha ha ha ha! I am gonna DESTROY you! And I have witnesses!


[After a few hits...]


Bowser: Owf! Well, I'd expect nothing less from you, Mario! Figures you'd get
        some licks in!


[Once Bowser is defeated...]


Bowser: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARGH!!


[After the battle...]


Bowser: Gruuuuuuuuuuurgh...


Grubba: Hoo! That's our Gonzales! He don't even bat an eye when some nut
        ambushes him! Tough! Yer too tough, son! And yer only gonna get
        tougher! Stay tuned, folks! Until next time, everyone... See ya!


[Back at the major league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's rank rose to 5!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


Yoshi: Wow! That was the king of the Koopas, wasn't it? WOW! That guy's insane!


[Mario reserves another match, against the Craw-Daddy. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Dark Gatekeeper... Yep, a fight to the finish with
        Craw-Daddy!


Yoshi: Lemme at 'em! Yeah! Bring it! You ready for a beating?


Dark Craw: Foolish mortals... I will drag you through the gate to the
           netherworld!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Yoshi: That all you got?


[Back at the major league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's rank rose to 4!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Mario gets more mail]


Yoshi: Gonzales! Sounds like another mail, huh?


[Mario opens the Mailbox SP]


"gO tO tHe TeLePhOnE bOoTh OuT oN tHe PaViLiOn"
                          FrOm X


Yoshi: Old X dude surfaced again! We gotta go to some phone booth outside now?
       Where was that thing? Aw, we'll find it. Let's head outside!


[Outside at the hallway, they see the Rawk Hawk]


Rawk Hawk: Gonzales! Good timing, you pudgy little punk. Uncle Rawk Hawk's got
           some advice for ya. If you keep stealing the spotlight from me,
           you're gonna enter a world of hurt! Quit making such a splash, if
           you value your puny life! Harharharharharhar!


[He walks off]


Yoshi: You, you BETTER keep walking, you punk chicken! YOU HEAR ME TALKING?!?
       Hey! Wait! I wonder... You think THAT idiot sent us that hate mail? I
       guess it doesn't matter. SOMEBODY hates us so we better watch our steps.


[Mario goes outside to the phone booth, where he finds and picks up a Storage
 Key. Upon leaving, he gets more mail]


"gO tO tHe StOrAgE rOoM nExT tO gRuBbA's OfFiCe."
                          From X


Yoshi: What the heck is this guy's problem? The storage room? I mean... Does he
       think we need the excercise? This dude is really cheesing me off.


[Mario heads back to the Glitz Pit, then he sees Jolene talking to a security
 guard by the storage room]


Jolene: So you're telling me that you have no idea who got inside? What do we
        pay you for?


Security Guard: I'm awful sorry, Ms. Jolene. I heard a noise in there, but I
                couldn't find nothing...


Jolene: Hmph. Fine, leave the rest of this matter to me. Go back to your post.
        And listen to me carefully: do not EVER tell anyone of this or I'll
        have your job.


[The security guard walks off, and Jolene notices Mario]


Jolene: You! Mr. Gonzales, this is highly inappropriate! What business do you
        have here? Please, I must ask you to stay out of places where you have
        no business being.


[Jolene walks off. Mario unlocks the door to the storage room and goes inside.
 Inside is Ms. Mowz]


Ms. Mowz: Oh! Mmmmm hmm hmm hmm! We meet again, you husky mustached hunk, you.


Yoshi: Are you a friend of Gonzales? I didn't know he hung with crooks...and
       you look like one. Security was talking about noises in here... Did you
       make noise while you stole stuff?


Ms. Mowz: Oh, please! No one heard ME! I'm the best mouse-burglar of all time!
          I'm silent! It's quite obvious that someone else must have been
          monkeying about in here...


Yoshi: Well, whatever, lady... But you ARE a thief, right?


Ms. Mowz: Hush. All you need to know is I've taken what I needed and now I'll
          be on my way. As for the rest, help yourself to whatever you like.


[She walks up to Mario]


Ms. Mowz: Mm hmm hmm hmm hmm! And now, we must part again, my sweet
          mustache-man!


[She kisses him]


Yoshi: Is that what's called a kiss? I heard about those things! I'm jealous!
       Only you get it?


Ms. Mowz: I almost forgot, my sweet... This arena holds many secrets, you know.
          You should be very careful, lest you end up like those poor souls
          upstairs. And with that, good-bye, my delectable hunk of cheese! We
          shall meet again!


[Ms. Mowz leaves]


Yoshi: Well, she took off, huh? What was that kiss like? I gotta get me one of
       those... Hey, but what do you think she meant about somebody being
       upstairs, huh?


[Mario gets mail]


"finD tHe StAiRcAsE sWiTcH tO rEaCh ThE aTtiIc."
                             From X


Yoshi: "The staircase switch"? How the heck could there be a staircase in here?


[Mario finds the switch that creates a staircase, then he heads upstairs and
 finds a big block to the left. He breaks it and drops down the hole in the
 floor. Inside, he peeks through a hole where Grubba's office is shown]


Grubba: ...So you didn't find hide or hair of nobody in the storage room, that
        what yer sayin'?


Jolene: Yes, Mr. Grubba. It appeared to be secure. Don't worry about it, sir.
        I've taken the nessecary precautions. It was most likely just a rat or
        something.


Grubba: Well, no big deal either way. Ain't nothin' in there we'd miss too much
        anyway. Thanks fer stayin' on top of this, Jolene. Hey, an' by the way,
        any word on King K?


Jolene: I'm afraid we still don't know the whereabouts of King K, Mr. Grubba.
        And so... I deleted his spot on our roster per regulations. The Glitz
        Pit no longer has any official connection to KP Pete, a.k.a King K. I
        have, of course, taken the same steps with all fighters who have gone
        missing.


Grubba: Hoo, fighters sure have been goin' missin' a lot lately! That's the
        fifth this year! What in tarnation's goin' on? I even heard some
        security ijit sayin' the Pit's cursed!


Jolene: I doubt that sir, but I certainly don't understand the disappearances.


Grubba: Well, fer the time bein', tell the other fellas that King K headed on
        home for a spell. If word gets out about missin' fighters, it sure
        ain't gonna be good for business, no siree! Nasty rumors have a way of
        sendin' folks runnin' to the hills, know what I mean?


Jolene: I understand completely, Mr. Grubba. I will take care of everything,
        sir.


[Jolene goes to leave]


Grubba: Y'know, Jolene... Yer a dang fine manager, but you just plumb
        disappear sometimes... I gotta know! Where in the world do you go,
        darlin'?


Jolene: Uh... Th-That's... Mr. Grubba, I know you're my boss, but I don't
        believe that's any of your business.


Grubba: Easy! Didn't mean to pry, now! How 'bout this, then... Heard of the
        Crystal Star?


Jolene: !


Jolene: N-No... I've never heard of such a thing, Mr. Grubba.


Grubba: Okeydoke, well, I 'preciate yer time, Ms. Jolene. You go ahead an' run
        along, now, y'hear?


[Jolene leaves]


Grubba: Well, if this ain't a fine how-do-you-do! Seems like good fighters are
        a dyin' breed. That wild child Gonzales is just about the only draw I
        still got 'round here.


[Back in the attic...]


Yoshi: Whoa, Gonzales! WHOA! Did you hear that?!? Fighters are going missing,
       dude! That ain't cool! Was that guy talking about King K, the
       minor-leaguer? I thought he retired!


[Mario nods]


Grubba: What in the hey?!? Dang cellin' is spookin' me! HEY! Somebody up there?


 - Squeak!
 - Meow!
 - Belch!


[The outcome is the same either way. This guide will go by the sentence Grubba
 says if you select "Squeak!"]


Grubba: ...Hoo, nelly! Just a little ol' mouse... Here I am, thinkin' someone's
        up there a-peepin'! I gotta relax...take some yoga classes or
        somethin'... Yep. Well, back to the ring!


[Grubba leaves. Back at the attic...]


Yoshi: Whoa! Whoa, man! We dodged a bullet there! Hey, but did you hear that
       guy blabbing about the Crystal Star? That Jolene lady acted pretty
       guilty when he let that one slip out... Well, whatever. For now, we
       better bail before somebody finds us up here!


[They escape the attic, then Mario goes back to the major league room and
 reserves anohter match, against Hamma, Bamma and Flare. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Big Bad Brute Bros... Yep, a fight to the finish
        with Hamma, Bamma, and Flare!


Yoshi: You think you can take me and Gonzales? HA!


Hammer Bro: My grandpappy's hammer is gonna strike you down, man! Here it
            comes!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Yoshi: Ah ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! How'd that floor taste?


[Back at the major league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's rank rose to 3!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves, and Mario gets mail]


"This is your last warning! Stop snooping around about the Crystal Star! If you
 don't, you'll suffer the same fate as the other fighters who have gone
 missing..."


Yoshi: This guy really needs to take a chill pill. He sure knows a lot,
       though... He's going on about the Crystal Star, the missing fighters,
       all that stuff... I tell you what, we find this guy, we'll have all the
       answers we need! But who is this psycho?


[Mario reserves another match, against the Chomp Country. Jolene suddenly walks
 in]


Jolene: Pardon me, Mr. Gonzales. Another gift arrived from one of your
        admirers. I'll just leave it over here, if that's OK? Do with it what
        you will.


[It's another cake. Mario and Yoshi ignore it and continue to the ring]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Red Ore Fear Orbs... Yep, a fight to the finish
        with Chomp Country!


Yoshi: Lemme at 'em! Yeah! Bring it! You ready for a beating?


Chain Chomp: ARF! ARF! ARF! ARF! ARF!


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Yoshi: Ah ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! How'd that floor taste?


[Back at the major league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's rank rose to 2!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves]


Yoshi: By the way, Gonzales... You see the dude on the floor back here?


Koopa Troopa: Bluuurgh... Body...went...numb... Stupid...cake... Hate...cake...
              Never...eat...cake...again...


Yoshi: Was that cake poisoned? Yeah! It must've been! If we'd eaten it, we'd be
       all banged up like that guy!


[Mario reserves another match, against the Koopinator. At the ring...]


Grubba: Fer our next battle, we got the Merciless Executioner, the GREAT
        GONZALES and... The Razor Blade Brigadier... Yep, a fight to the finish
        with The Koopinator!


Yoshi: Lemme at 'em! Yeah! Bring it! You ready for a beating?


Koopinator: You. Finally, I get a piece of you. Finally, we'll see who's truly
            stronger.


Grubba: Get yerselves ready to...BAAAAAATTLE!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: We got ourselves a winner! THE GRRRRRREAT GONZALES!


Yoshi: Ah ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! How'd that floor taste?


[Back at the major league room...]


Jolene: Here's your fight money, Mr. Gonzales.


"You received [amount] coins! Mario's rank rose to 1!"


Jolene: Now, if you'll excuse me... I must be going.


[Jolene leaves and Mario gets mail]


Yoshi: Ding ding ding! Mail call! You think it's from our pal or the guy who
       hates us?


"rEmOvE tHe GrEaT gOnZaLeS pOsTeRs In ThE lObBy."
                                FrOm X


Yoshi: From X this time, huh? That guy still sounds like a nut, but hey, he's
       all we got! What's he want us to do, again? Peel off your posters in the
       lobby? Sounds good to me. Let's hit the lobby.


[They go to the lobby and with Flurrie's help, peel off the posters on the
 wall. They find another Storage Key behind one of them]


Yoshi: Whoa! Where do you think THAT key goes?


[Mario gets mail]


"gO tO tHe SeCoNd FlOoR oF tHe StOrAgE rOoM."
                             FrOm X


[Mario goes back to the storage room and to the second floor, then he unlocks a
 door using the Storage Key. Inside, he smashes a big yellow block, and behind
 the block, they find Bandy Andy and King K. They're on the ground, with barely
 any energy left]


Yoshi: WHOOOOOOAAAAA! You gotta be kidding me! Bandy Andy! And King K!


[Mario talks to King K, but he doesn't respond. He then talks to Bandy Andy]


Bandy Andy: Gon... Gon... Gonzales... Listen...to me...URK!...man... Don't...
            get...near...the...ring...when...no...one...is...around...
            Ohhhhhhh...


Yoshi: C'mon, shake it off, buddy! What do you mean, don't go near the ring?


[As they go to leave, they notice Jolene who was peeking through the door]


Yoshi: Gonzales! You see that?!? That was Jolene! This is craziness! What is
       going ON in here?


[Mario goes to the major league room and reserves a match]


Grubba: The Great Gonzales! Howdy! Fixin' for a fight, huh? Hyuk hyuk hyuk hyuk
        hyuk! Well, guess what? Your next match is...THE TITLE MATCH!
        Hoooo-WEEEEE! Darn tootin'! You're up against the champ, Rawk Hawk!
        Now, I wanna see a fair an' excitin' match, so don't you let me down,
        now, you hear? Now listen, son: in this battle, I want you to use at
        least one special move, OK? The crowd needs somethin' flashy, you catch
        my drift? Give 'em a good show. Now get in there an' blow the roof off,
        son!


[Mario is led out of the room by the security guard, but he's going a different
 way than usual]


Yoshi: Hold up, dude! Where are you heading? That ain't the way to the arena!


Security Guard: Yeah, uh, you go this way this time 'cause it's a special
                match.


[They are lead down the hallway]


Yoshi: Hey, hold it, meathead! This doesn't seem right...


[They are carried to a run down locker room]


Security Guard: You two wait here.


[They are confused. The guard leaves]


Yoshi: Hey! This ain't the ring! It's a minor-league locker room! And it's
       empty! That guy said to wait... But, dude, we're missing our title bout!
       This stinks!


[Meanwhile, at the ring...]


Grubba: Now fer today's main event! The top dog of the major league... The
        Great Gonzales...


Grubba: ...Is finally gonna throw down with the champ! The one...the only...
        RAWK HAWK!


Grubba: First to enter the ring... The Feral Nuclear Reactor! RAAAAAWWWK
        HAAAAWWWK!


[The Rawk Hawk enters, and his fans cheer for him]


Grubba: Hooooo, DOGGIES! Champ! How're you feelin', son? Yer challenger's a
        handful!


Rawk Hawk: He don't want a handful of THIS! Unh-unh! There's only one champ...
           and it's ME! Even if this Gonzales wuss ever shows up, what's he
           gonna do, huh? NOTHING!


Grubba: But the Great Gonzales made it to the top of the majors faster than
        anyone, ever! He even got up there faster than YOU did, Champ! What you
        got to say about that?


Rawk Hawk: What do I have to say? PBBBBBBBTTHHHHBBTH! THAT'S what! Who cares
           what this guy did to a bunch of chumps?!? 'Cause now he gets RAWKED!


[Back at the empty locker room...]


Yoshi: OK, that is IT! Nobody's coming for us, man! Hear me? Let's go kick some
       tail!


[Yoshi tries to get out, but the door is locked]


Yoshi: Awwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww... WEAK! Some punk's locked us in! We're trapped in
       here!


[Back at the ring...]


Grubba: And now for our challenger... The Merciless Executioner... THE GRRREAT
        GOOONZALES!!!


[No one enters]


Grubba: ...Hold the phone, folks! What the hey's going on? What happened to the
        Great Gonzales?!?


Rawk Hawk: Harharharharharharhar! I'll tell you what happened! He fears the
           RAWWWWWWWK!


Grubba: Hoo-WEE! What a stupefyin' development, folks! Did the Great Gonzales
        really turn yella an' head fer the hills like a dog?!? I tell you what,
        folks... If he don't show soon, he's a-gonna forfeit the match!


[Back at the locker room...]


Yoshi: Man, this is the WORST! We're gonna forfeit our match if we don't show!
       We gotta break outta here, man! Right now!


[They find a Peach poster on the wall. Flurrie blows it away to reveal a secret
 entrance to another locker room. In that locker room, they find a door that
 takes them to a toilet. They go down the toilet like a pipe. The security
 guards in the hallway hear the water, and Mario appears out of a toilet in
 another locker room]


Yoshi: Dude, I have got SO much respect for plumbers now! Now let's get Rawk
       Hawk!


[They continue out of the locker room and to the arena]


Grubba: The moment you been waitin' for, folks! The Great Gonzales just entered
        the arena!


[People cheer for Mario]


Yoshi: Looks like we made it, dude! And the crowd is LOVING US! We are STARS,
       baby! Come on, let's go lay the smack down on that big chicken!


[Mario and Yoshi enter the ring]


Grubba: Just listen to this crowd hoot 'n' holler fer the challenger, Great
        Gonzales! Will his hamer of hurt 'n' harm be enough to rock the Rawk
        Hawk's socks? Now, at long last, the battle to end all battles is here!
        Let's keep it clean, boys!


[They battle]


Yoshi: All right, Gonzales! We're fighting the champ! I'M...SO...FIRED...UP!


Rawk Hawk: Harharharharharhar! You wimps should've stayed locked up, safe and
           sound!


Yoshi: What kind of trash-talking are you doing now? Wait... Did YOU get that
       security guard to lock us in the locker room?


Rawk Hawk: You're darn right I did! I also sent you that poisoned cake,
           suckers! That's what happens when you mess with me, baby! You meet
           the pain train!


Yoshi: So YOU'RE the coward who's been sending nasty e-mails about the Crystal
       Star!


Rawk Hawk: Huh? I have no idea what you're babbling about now. What's a Crystal
           Star? No, wait... I DON'T CARE! I may not play exactly fair, but I
           got skills, punks! And now, you're about to meet 'em all, baby!
           Prepare to be RAAAAAAAAWKED!


[After a few hits...]


Rawk Hawk: Pbbbth! Not too shabby! You're better than I thought. This may
           actually be fun! Don't get your head swelled, though, 'cause you got
           a ways to go! Check this out!


Rawk Hawk: TIME TO RAAAAAAAWK!


[He does a flying attack at Mario. After a few hits...]


Rawk Hawk: Man, you're kinda annoying! How DARE you turn the Rawk back on the
           Hawk?!? I should've just taken care of you before the battle. I'm
           getting lazy, I guess. Well, since it's come down to this, I guess I
           got no choice but to...


[He makes a beam come down, then he jumps on it and makes many objects fall
 onto Mario. After he takes even more hits...]


Rawk Hawk: GRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR! Bah! I've only just begun to RAAAAAWWWWWWK!


[After he's defeated...]


Rawk Hawk: NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO! I... Rawk Hawk... The champ...
           The undefeated master... I've lost to...such losers...


[After the battle...]


Rawk Hawk: Yuuuuuurgh...


Grubba: Folks, I feel like my eyes just popped outta my head! We got ourselves
        a miracle! Technique versus technique! Raw power verus raw power! A
        clash of superhumans! Folks, this was truly, honestly, without
        question, no doubt, absolutely... The most legendary, amazin',
        improbable, history-makin' bout of all TIME! And the victor in this
        match fer the ages was... THE GRRRREAT GONZAAALES! Congratulations,
        Gonzales! Yer the champion, son!! Give him a hand, folks! The new Glitz
        Pit champ! THE GRRRRREAT GONZALES!


[Back at the major league room...]


Grubba: Well, you finally did it, son! Today's yer first day as the new champ!
        Here's yer belt!


[Grubba gives Mario the Champ's Belt]


Grubba: Tell you what: I'm gonna go ahead an' get you set up in the champ's
        room right away. Ms. Jolene, be a peach an' show Gonzales here the
        champion's room, OK?


Jolene: Absolutely, sir. Well then, Mr. Champion... Would you follow me,
        please?


[Mario follows Jolene down the hallway to the champion's room]


Jolene: Congratulations again, Mr. Champion. From now on, this is where you'll
        stay. It's your room now, so make yourself at home. You will use the
        terminal as you always have, of course. Will there be anything else?
        Well then, have a nice day, Mr. Champion.


[Jolene leaves]


Yoshi: YEAH! YEAH! YEAH! YEAH! We finally made it, Gonzales! But... Y'know,

       Rawk Hawk really sounded clueless about the Crystal Star... We still
       don't have any leads on that thing. I mean, where the heck could it be?


[Yoshi hears something]


Yoshi: Hang on, Gonzales! You hear that? A voice is coming from somewhere!


[Mario also hears it]


Yoshi: You think it's...a ghost?


[He gets an e-mail]


Yoshi: H-H-H-Hey! Do you HAVE to have that thing turned up? That scared me
       silly!


"finD tHe GhOsT iN tHe ChAmP's RoOm."
                        FrOm X


Yoshi: There's actually a ghost in here? OK, that is NOT cool! Ghosts are
       scary!


[Using Yoshi's help, Mario reaches a vent. He uses the Super Hammer to break
 off the covering, then he goes inside]


Yoshi: We're in the air duct, right? Where does it lead?


[As they move closer...]


Grubba: Hyuk hyuk hyuk hyuk! Well, THAT'S in perfect condition, as usual! Yep,
        long as I got THAT baby workin' for me, this ol' bod ain't NEVER gonna
        get weak! But I'm gonna have to watch my tootsies here fer a little
        bit... First I let that King K ijit walk in on me when I was with...
        THAT... An' now I can't shake the feelin' that Jolene an' Gonzales are
        onto me... Well, I guess I'll burn that bridge when the time comes.
        I'll just disappear 'em! Yep, just like I did to them others...like I
        did to Prince Mush, the first champ!


Yoshi: That voice... It's Grubba! So HE'S behind all those missing fighters?


Grubba: I better lock this room up tighter 'n a peanut butter jar at a squirrel
        convention. An' I'll just go ahead an' hide the paper relatin' to THAT
        in the desk drawer...


Grubba: There we go! Y'know what, though? Since I'm thinkin' aloud, here...
        Good fighters ain't nothin' to mess with. Even Rawk Hawk lost to
        Gonzales. This new champ might have to disappear purty soon. For my
        sake...


[Mario breaks down the covering at the end of the vent, then goes through. It
 leads to Grubba's office]


Yoshi: I think he's gone... Let's check out that desk drawer of his...


[They check out the drawer]


Yoshi: Whoa! Bingo! I bet that's the paper ol' Grubba hid! Check it out, Mario!


[They read the paper]


Yoshi: Yow! A machine under the ring using a Crystal Star? These are the
       blueprints! I dunno what the rest of this nerd-talk says, but I think
       the Crystal Star powers it! If this paper's right, then the machine can
       suck the power out of people! Yuck! Oh, crud... You think that King K
       and Bandy Andy got all...drained or something?


[Grubba walks in]


Grubba: GREAT GALLOPIN' GULPITS! How in tarnation did YOU get in here, son?
        Well, slap me an' call me Sassafras! Yer starin' at my secret paper,
        too!


Yoshi: Shut up! You make me sick! Why'd you drain King K and Bandy Andy, huh?


Grubba: Whoa, nelly! This ain't good!


[Grubba leaves in haste]


Yoshi: After him, Gonzales!


[Mario and Yoshi head to the arena, which is completely empty. They get onto
 the ring]


Grubba: I gotta say, y'all are a coupla slack-jawed idiots, sniffin' 'round my
        business... Now you know my big secret, I'm afraid yer gonna have to
        take a li'l ol' dirt nap.


[The ring rumbles, and the middle of the ring lowers. Then, Grubba comes back
 up in a big machine with the Crystal Star stuck in the top]


Yoshi: Gonzales! Up there! That's the Crystal Star, right?


Grubba: Hyuk hyuk hyuk hyuk hyuk! How you like my machine? Pretty dang nice,
        huh? Yep, I've been suckin' power from fighters with this baby!
        SLUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUURP! Yer darn tootin'! An' you know why? 'Cause
        it keeps my bod forever young, son!


Yoshi: You are such a scumbag! You're gonna pay for using a Crystal Star like
       that!


Grubba: Oh, just shut yer traps, now! I'll use MY Crystal Star however I dang
        please! Check THIS out! HRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRGH! MUUUUUUUUUUUUUSCLE-UP!


[Grubba transforms and becomes a giant orange creature, Macho Grubba]


Macho Grubba: MAAAAAAAAAAACHO GRUBBA!


Yoshi: Yow! Grubba beefed up!


Macho Grubba: Hoo-wee! I'm gonna smoosh you guys into guacamole an' snack on
              YER energy, too!


[The fight commences]


Macho Grubba: MAAAACHO! I'm a powerhouse now, you pesterin' li'l pieces of
              prairie piffle! So long's I have this here machine, my bod'll be
              rough, tough, an' ultrabuff!


Yoshi: Let's rock, Gonzales! I'm ready to chew this dude up and spit him out!


[After a few hits...]


Macho Grubba: Oh yeah! Keep it spicy! You know I love a good tussle, Gonzales!
              Keep on scrappin', son! 'Course, it ain't gonna do you much good
              in the end...


[After some more hits...]


Macho Grubba: Not too shabby, Gonzales! You got showmanship, an' that's GOLD in
              this biz! But this here battle's just gettin' started! It's time
              I showed you some real moves! Back in the day, I had so many
              rump-kickin' moves, they had to make some illegal!


[Macho Grubba grows much bigger in size, and the fight continues. As the fight
 continues on...]


Macho Grubba: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARGH! I ain't finished yet, Gonzales!!! Ain't
              over 'til it's over! That's the way it goes in combat sports,
              son! And lemme tell you somethin': fortune's gonna smile on me in
              the end, punk!


[Once he's defeated...]


Macho Grubba: YAAAAARGH!


[After the battle...]


Grubba: Noooo... How'd this happen? How could a perfect bod like mine lose to
        such a chub? Oh...Great...Gonzales... Great fight, there, son. Great...
        fight. Urrrrrrrrgh...


Voice: Mr. Champion!


[Jolene enters]


Jolene: ...No, I mean...Mario. Please allow me to offer my earnest thanks for
        defeating that foul Grubba.


Yoshi: Jolene!


Jolene: I really have to apologize... I'm so sorry that I had to get you
        involved... But you must understand... I had to learn the truth about
        this arena by any means.


Jolene: Let me tell you everything. I had a little brother once, by the name of
        Mush. He'd have done anything for me. Our family was always poor, so he
        became a fighter here to support all of us... But he suddenly went
        missing one day. Our family was inconsolable. I suspected foul play, so
        I gothired on as the manager and investigated in secret. As I looked
        for clues about my brother, I accidently saw Mr. Grubba transform.
        Seeing what I was up against, I almost gave up hope...and then you
        appeared. So I decided to secretly guide you.


Yoshi: Ah-ha! So, our X buddy was...


Jolene: Correct... It was me. Once I saw you fight, I knew you were the only
        one who could challenge Grubba.


[She gets on the ring, and walks up to Grubba]


Jolene: Now, sir...


Jolene: ...No! Not "sir"! Grubba! I want answers, right NOW! What did you do
        with my precious little brother? You know exactly what I'm talking
        about! The first champion: PRINCE MUSH!


Grubba: Urrrgh... Prince Mush... He... He...discovered the secret of my...
        power-suckin' machine... I had him...urgh...disappear. Any which way
        you look at it...oooog...he ain't around these parts no more.


Jolene: ...No! I...suspected as much... Oh... Poor, sweet Mush...


Yoshi: Boy, I thought she was kinda mean, but it turns out she was just worried
       for her brother!


[Yoshi notices something]


Yoshi: Wow! Check it out, Gonzales! The Crystal Star!


[The Crystal Star is shown, and Prince Mush is shot out of the machine]


Prince Mush: Whoa... Is this... Am I back in the Glitz Pit?


Jolene: MUSH!!!


[She walks over to mush]


Prince Mush: Oh... Is that really you, Sis? What are you doing here? I... I
             was just...


Jolene: There, there, Mush. It's OK. It's all over...finally...


Yoshi: Is THAT what Crystal Stars can do?


Jolene: Now, Mario...the Crystal Star is yours.


[The machine deactivates, and the Crystal Star falls out]


Yoshi: Whoa! Are you sure? It's OK if we just take it?


Jolene: It's better that you have it...so that nothing like this will ever
        happen again.


Yoshi: It's all you, Gonzales! Nab it, dude!


[Mario takes the third Crystal Star, ending the third chapter]


"You got a Crystal Star! Your Star Power is now 4! And Mario learned the
 special move Power Lift!"


"Glitzville's seamy underside was a dark, dangerous place seething with
 conspiracy... With the help of the lovely Ms. Jolene, Mario revealed
 Grubba's true identity... And acquired the third Crystal Star by defeating the
 monstrous Macho Grubba. Grubba had used the power of the Crystal Star to run
 his power-draining machine... What other hidden powers might these strange and
 mystical items possess?"

