Tiny creatures far below, which of you will be first to go?
As cute as me, you stupid pot?  For her own sake, I hope she's not!
I need those looks, far more than she, and finally perfect, I shall be!

Dingpot, Dingpot, by the bench, who is the nicest looking wench?
Yes, you're right. I'm rather proud. My looks stand me out from the crowd.
Ah! What do you mean?! This cannot be! There's no one prettier than me!
No, no no, you must be mad. Nicer beauty can't be had!
If Tooty thinks she's fairer than me, I'll steal her looks and ugly she'll be!
Come to me, my little pretty. You'll soon be ugly. What a pity!
Don't scratch and bite, my little bear. You'll soon need bigger underwear!
This fine contraption, as I'm told, will make me young and Tooty old.
Rescue you, he will not dare, there's many dangers in my lair.
Hurry, Klungo, push that switch, I'm tired of being an ugly witch.


Many tricks are up my sleeve, to save yourself, you'd better leave!
Grunty's plan is rather cunning, when I'm thin, guys will come running!
Long of tooth and strong of arm, Grunty's got the lasting charm!
My filthy bed gives me a rash, I never wash, I save my cash!
I don't like stairs much in my lair, they always make me gasp for air!
Can't you get here any faster?  Come and fight me, I'm the master!
If you think I'm rather soft, I'll be waiting in the loft!
Why do I talk all the time, it's really hard to make these rhyme!
I'm still here, I watch you play, but I can't think of much to say!
It really does sound quite absurd, adventure of a bear and bird!
How bright they are, your stupid shorts, a target for my dumb cohorts!
That ugly bear, you feathered freak, is nothing but a stupid geek!
Join me now and dump the bear, that little backpack then I'll wear!
You side with Banjo, but change tack, imagine you on Grunty's back!
Your feathered buddy that you've brung, useless like a pile of dung!
I can see it's quite hard work, to lump around that squawking jerk!
My next world is the hardest yet, and you will fail on that I'll bet!
Tooty's fate is looking grim, it's because her brother's dim!
I've got this skirt so when I'm thinner, it really makes me look a winner!
When Tooty is a big ole lump, I've got just the frock to hide her rump!
Your butt will tell you and you'll know, when my boot swings to and fro!
When the back of Grunty's hand, whups your butt, you'll hardly stand!
Hey Banjo, you're looking glum, it must be hard, being so dumb!
Grunty's stomach and leg thins, goodbye to all those double chins!
Once I'm nice and thin once more, burgers, fries, and chips galore!
Tooty says she's fine with me, if you go home, I'll set her free!
Grunty admits she's a hog, I really need a big hot dog!
Monsters chase you, they're a hounding, then you'll get a Grunty pounding!
My belly's big, it's rather neat, it's years since I have seen my feet!
I've learned this spell, it's really neat, I'll keep it later for your treat!

There he is, the fun begins, my tricks and traps will see who wins!
That was such an easy fit, the others may just test your wit!
You've found some notes, but you need more, to break my spell and pass this door!
That door was easy that you got past, unfortunately your first and last!
When you open a world door, baddies escape and roam once more!
Hey book brain, what did you say?  You'd better not give my spells away!
If one more page I see you turn, then Grunty shall make Cheato burn!
That traitor book has pushed its luck, so in the burning fire I'll chuck!
What's wrong Banjo, is it tough?  Let me know when you've had enough!
It's not over stupid bear, see my picture over there!
To fill it up is no mean feat, lots of Jiggies make it complete!
Pieces that you've left behind, to battle me, you must go find!
I'm sad to say down there you'll stop, cuz I'm safe here at the top!
Don't be sure you silly pot, soon I'll have you nice and hot!
See these filthy clothes I've got, when I've won, you'll wash the lot!
Grunty's fate, this should not be, so hurry, Klungo, rescue me!
I lost my doll, you ugly bear, get it and bring it to my lair!
Now I can sleep at night, you're lucky because I was ready to fight!
My evil plan has worked so well, now I'm off to make Spiral Mountain hell!
Now I've got that bear and bird, there's nothing you can do you silly nerd!
Stop using cheats in my tower, you are getting all the power!
Now I'll erase your Game Pak, because you had the need to hack!
The free trial's over so here's where you're staying, or buy the full game to carry on playing!
This drawing clearly shows, that the artist's skill certainly blows!
Subscribe to me if you want some more, I'm sure my videos won't be a bore!
You read like a drunken fool, I become sick, that's not so cool!

That golden treasure was for me, now harder still the game will be!
That lousy cheat for extra eggs, won't help bear and chicken legs!
All my feathers, it makes me sick, fly to me, your butts I'll kick!
Golden Feathers you may have twenty, but bruises you'll still get plenty!
Stop this cheating Grunty says, or your Game Pak I'll erase!
You didn't listen, I'm amazed, so now your Game Pak is erased!

First you see it, now you don't, the fast one wins, the slow one won't!
I'll be young and Tooty old, before you get Gruntilda's gold!

Grunty's race you cannot beat, until you find some faster feet!

Oh, those lovely thorns, how they've grown, music to my ears as you moan!
I can't believe you went in there, wash your hands now, filthy bear!
These two guests are rather dumb, let's make sure they're unwelcome!
Yes I'm mad, my boot I'll put, up your useless spooky butt!
Big oak door is very tough, stupid bear's not fast enough!

My oily water, in you plunge, you'll lose air while in that gunge!
Under the scum, you'll breathe your last, cuz air is used twice as fast!
Stupid bear, you'll have to learn, that red hot ovens tend to burn!
A simple task you were sure, but Grunty's engines start once more!

My bramble field makes you yelp, and loss of life it sure does help!
You'll use your air up double fold, I've made this water double cold!
Yes that's right, swim under there, icy water takes double air!


Welcome all, Grunty's the name, Banjo's here to play my game!
My lair is done and there he stands, through all my tricks and traps and lands!
This final test will see me win, when Banjo fails then I'll be thin!
The prizes on this stand bring joy, from Tooty down to a cuddly toy!
My little quiz will make you sweat, and Tooty you shall never get!
Cuz someone soon along the way, your lack of skill will make my day!
Cuz in the fiery pit you'll go, and I'll win the prize on show!
So step on over to the square, press "A" to try it if you dare!
So I see you're back to try, one more time but you will fry!

A little answer's all I seek, about this game you furry geek!
A visual challenge you stupid bear, to tell me who it is or where!
A question on the sounds I'll play, get it wrong to make my day!
Just one chance to get this right, win a joker and help it might!
Each joker card that you have got, will skip a question, that's your lot!
Press "B" to use it you little cheat, when on a square you get cold feet!
Your joker misses out on a square, accept the test you did not dare!
Prepare yourself to take a whack, pick this test, you won't come back!
I think it's time, so let me see, how much you know of little ole me!
Get this wrong for Grunty's sake, then a lava bath you'll take!
Try this one, but don't be lame... You'll lose a life AND LOSE THE GAME!!! 

The name of your game you must spell, backwards though, be quick as well!
Mighty Boom Box you must now fight, but be quick as time is tight!
This is tough, your chances are slim, of you eating more than him!
Little stings that make a bear shout, whack them all before time's out!
The tiles await for you to match, time is tight but that's the catch!
Watch as the turtles sing their song, repeat it quick, you won't get long!

A lucky guess, you got it right, the next square's yours without a fight!
Hear the crowd, they boo and hiss, to see you fail they would not miss!
That's a secret, how did you know?  Did my sister tell you so?

Fail a square, and you'll feel pain, please press "A" to try again!
Get more wrong, yes that's the way, the crowds are happier today!
An easy challenge you have assumed, one more wrong and you are doomed!
no lives are left, he burns and chokes! I'm pleased to say, THAT'S ALL FOLKS!!!

An Extra Life, I do not care, it will not help you scruffy bear!
The energy that you have found, won't stop me from making Tooty round!

No one can win, I was assured, by the makers of this board!
It's not fair, I want to win, how I longed to be real thin!
Now you can take the prize on show, while up the winding stairs I go!
You won't catch me, I've made sure, all the credits you'll now endure!


I can't believe that furry pair, got right up here, it's so unfair!
But now the stupid bear must fight, this battle tests your skill and might!
Back once more, you'll never learn, that suits me fine, your butts I'll burn!
Who's back up here, oh my word, it's beaky fool and hair nerd!
I can't believe you're up here again, stupid bear and dumb bird brain!
I'm not one to brag or boast, but after this you'll both be toast!
So you're back, you must be thick, you'll lose again, I'll make it quick!


Ouch my butt, it's now quite sore, I'll make you suffer, that's for sure!
What was that, you got me now, you've really angered this old cow!
A glancing blow, nothing more, now I'll knock you through the floor!
Now you've got me in a fluster, faster spells I'll have to muster!

Did you hear that lovely clack, my broomstick gave you such a whack!
AAAH!  I see it makes you sad, to know your skills are really bad!
I hit that bird right on the beak, let it be the end of her cheek!
My fiery blast you've just tasted, Grunty's spells on you are wasted!
See my swoop and how I flew, my broomstick made a meal of you!
Hopeless bear runs to and fro, but takes a whack for being so slow!
Mmm, I see you took that one, a few more and your life is gone!


It's too easy, so I fear, now watch me step things up a gear!
Don't hit me, that's quite enough, I think you'll find the next bit tough!
That last hit did clip my ear, but you can't get me over here!
Ah, it's time for me to change, my spot to put me out of range!

That didn't hurt, I feel no pain, Grunty's back to fight again!
AARGH!  I'm slow with all of this lard, that egg of yours caught me off guard!
I can't dodge with all this weight, those nasty eggs I sure do hate!
Ouch!  My gut you nearly hit, if your shot was down a bit!
This spot is proving rough, I'll have to move to make it more tough!
That's not fair, I wasn't ready! Now I feel weak and all unsteady!
Ahh, it's time for me to change, my spot to put me out of range!
Ooof!  I took another whack, but watch me give you double back!

So I got you there once more, I knew your skill was very poor!
That last blast you forgot to duck, so Banjo's useless head it struck!
These bolts fly with such a whiz, I love the way they screech and fizz!
Simply put I'm rather proud, your yelps and screams I heard quite loud!
Hah!  You took another zap, I got you through that little gap!
Grunty's fireball you did kiss, you're so slow I can hardly miss!
Hear that fireball fizz and bang, your hairy butt took quite a clang!


Off I fly cuz then we'll see, if you can get the best of me!
Did you know I learned to fly?  At witch's school, I'm sure you know why!
A big old gal I may be, but when I fly you can't get me!
Old bottle brain has taught you well, but bears can't fly and I can tell!
Now I'm off into the air, leaving Banjo way down there!
See my broomstick, watch me fly, I'll beat your butt, don't even try!
Up in the air I'll be safe, at my leisure your butt I'll strafe!

Another hit, I'm getting weak, I really need to take a leak!
AARGH!  You got me once again, prepare to take this sizzle brain!
Oooh!  You sniveling little pup, have this bolt, I'm speeding up!
YOW!  That beak sure gave me a jolt, so you can have this lightning bolt!
Ouch!  Now that one really stung, take this nasty spell I've brung!

This broom is hard and as it streaks, across the sky it chafes my cheeks!
Fireball fizz and fireball fly, blast that bear out of my sky!
Another hit, that's how it goes, watch me fly and pick my nose!
Soon you'll lose and when you're gone, I have to go and use the john!
Grunty's spell your body numbs, an easy task to hit those bums!


I may be old and rather wide, but underneath this shield I'll hide!
That pointy beak did not miss, but let's see it get through this!
Look at me I'm quite a mess, here's a shield to hide my dress!
A special shield I need to call, to stop your hits once and for all!
So Grunty doesn't come to grief, here's a spell I can hide beneath!

Come on then you little punks, Grunty's spells will make you chunks!
I hid those Jinjos really well, but must have used a lousy spell!
I hid you well for being bad, don't help the bear, you'll make me mad!
So your little furry friends, come here to share your very end!

How that Jinjo stung and burned, he got me when my back was turned!
That wasn't fair, I wasn't ready, Jinjos make me so unsteady!
Hey, that Jinjo really hurt, now I'll rub you in the dirt!
That wasn't fair, I wasn't ready, I feel all faint and unsteady!
I hold on hard and grit my teeth, to stop it dangling underneath!
Useless Jinjos sneer and hoot, go back right now or taste my boot!
Ooh!  Those nasty pointy beaks, are causing swelling in my cheeks!
Don't hit me you flying pig, my anger now is growing big!

Your stupid friends aren't much help, they stand there while I make you yelp!
Your silly friends upon their blocks, they're going to take a couple of knocks!
Your Jinjos really are a joke, now watch your lives go up in smoke!
Another hit, I don't believe, you didn't dodge, why don't you weave!
Get used to that, there's plenty more, of other nasty spells in store!


Useless broomsticks I can't stand, it's left me stranded back on land!
That last shot I failed to stop, so down onto the ground I drop!
My broomstick failed with that last blow, now on my legs I have to go!
Ooof!  You winded me all around, to catch my breath I'm on the ground!
I've bet you thought you had me beat, but look!  I've landed on my feet!

What's all this, how dare you cheat, but I don't care, I can't be beat!
That's no good, you stupid jerk, the Jinjo statue will not work!
I really think you ought to run, when I beat him and spoil your fun!
That rocky moron can't hurt me, cuz Grunty will the winner be!

Hear the fizzle and feel the pain, you're going to lose a life again!
Spells rain down upon your head, you stand no chance when I see red!
The bear is dumb, the bird's a twit, cuz I just got another hit!
I'm just warming up right now, such fine shots from this old cow!
Grunty's aim is rather good, if you could run, I know you would!

I could take these shots all day, there's no way I'm going to sway!
See your Jinjo failed to work, he's nothing but a feeble jerk!
Your crafty plan stands no chance, I'm firmly rooted in this stance!
There's no way he'll shift my bulk, I watch you cry and have a sulk!
Even with your extra friend, I know you'll meet a nasty end!
Grunty's strength will see me through, when Jinjo's gone, I'll batter you!

That last Jinjo has finished me, but who laughs last we shall soon see!
I'm done for now, hear me choke, but look what's hidden in my cloak!
Poor old Grunty, set to fall, upon this spell I'll now call!
AARGH!  I'm beaten fair and square, before I go I've got this to share!
It's all over I can tell, but Grunty's got just one more spell!

Here's my magnet spell at last, run and hide, you won't get past!
Magic spell, seek out your prey, it's sure to hit, O' happy day!
See this spell, I think you'll find, it's target will be your behind!
Here's a spell of Banjo homing, get him now to stop his roaming!
It's now time to end your fun, here comes a spell you can't outrun!

Banjo's game ends in my tower, turn it up, I need full power!
Look at Grunty, she's a beauty, I'm much prettier than Tooty!

Stupid bear and dumb Kazooie, I'll be back in Banjo-Tooie!
All the Jiggies you did snatch, but I'll be back for my rematch!
